What is this?

It is a tiny suite of utilities that hapless WMF employees use to massage the
XML dump files so that we can produce them on a more regular basis.

More specifically, they allow us to do various things with bz2 files
quickly instead of requiring a serial read/decompress of the file.  Some
of these files range from 2 to 30 GB in size, so serial access is too slow.

The files bz2libfuncs.c, bzlib.h and bzlib_private.h are taken from bzip2/libbzip2 
version 1.0.6 of 6 September 2010 (Copyright (C) 1996-2010 Julian Seward 
<jseward@bzip.org>) and as such their copyright license is in the file 
LICENSE_BZ; all other files in the package are released under the GPL, 
see the file COPYING for details.

Utilities:

checkforbz2footer     - Tests to see if the bz2 file specified on the command line
		        has a bz2 footer (if it does it is likely to be intact).
			Exits with 0 if found, 1 otherwise.
dumpbz2filefromoffset - Uncompresses the file from the first bz2 block found after
		        the specified offset, and dumps the results to stdout.
                        This will first look for and dump the <mediawiki> header, 
			up to and including the </siteinfo> tag; then it will
			find the first <page> tag in the first bz2 block after
			the specified output and dump the contents from that point
			on.
dumplastbz2block      - Finds the last bz2 block marker in a file and dumps whatever 
		        can be decompressed after that point;  the header of the file 
			must be intact in order for any output to be produced. This 
			will produce output for truncated files as well, as long as 
			there is "enough" data after the bz2 block marker.  
			Exits with 0 if decompression of some data can be done,
			1 if decompression fails, and -1 on error.

findpageidinbz2xml    - Given a bzipped and possibly truncated file, and a page id, 
		        hunt for the page id in the file; this assumes that the
			bz2 header is intact and that page ids are steadily increasing
			throughout the file.  It writes the offset of the relevant block 
			(from beginning of file) and the first pageid found in that block, 
			to stdout. Format of output:
			     position:xxxxx pageid:nnn
			It exits with 0 on success, -1 on error.

Library routines:

mwbz2lib.c            - various utility functions (bitmasks, shifting and comparing bytes,
	                setting up bz2 files for decompression, etc)

External library routines:

bz2libfuncs.c         - the BZ2_bzDecompress() routine, modified so that it does not do
		      	a check of the cumulative CRC (since we read from an arbitrary 
			point in most of these files, we won't have a cumulative CRC
			that makes any sense).  It's a one line fix but it requires
			unRLE_obuf_to_output_FAST() which is marked static in the original
			library, so that's in here too.

